---
title: Short-Term Scienfic Missions in WIMANET
description: Open call for funding of STSMs in the Wildlife Malaria Network
background: /assets/theme/images/microscope.JPG
author: Jenny Dunn
comments: true
---

## What are STSMs ? 
Short-term scientific missions (STSM) are exchange visits between researchers involved in a COST Action, allowing scientists to visit an institution or laboratory in another COST Member state  participating  in  WIMANET.  These  scientific  missions  have  a  maximum  budget  of  EUR 4,000,  and  a  minimum  duration  of  7  days.  Their  aim  is  to  foster  collaboration  in  excellent research infrastructures and share new techniques that may not be available in a participant’s home institution or laboratory. 
 
More information can be found in the [Annotated Rules for COST Actions](https://www.cost.eu/uploads/2023/11/COST-094-21-Annotated-Rules-for-COST-Actions-Level-C-V1.4-Final-.pdf). 
 
## Who can apply? 
Short-term scientific missions are open to all members of WIMANET based in a COST Member state or NNC participating in WIMANET. 
 
## How to Apply? 
Calls  for  the  first  round  of  applications  for  Short  Term  Scientific  Missions  will  open  on  1st March. The first round of applications will close on 31st March; late applications may be considered if budget allows. Applications are first submitted on the [e-COST website](https://e-services.cost.eu/stsm),  and  must  also  be  e-mailed  to  the  Grant  Awarding  Co-ordinator,  [Dr Alexandra  Conduneanu](alexandra.corduneanu@usamvcluj.ro)  and  the  [WIMANET  e-mail](wimanet.science@gmail.com). The application consists of the following documents: 

* document generated by e-COST,
* a letter of invitation from a researcher affiliated to the Host institution, 
* a motivation letter including a work plan detailing the proposed activities and benefits for WIMANET, 
* Requested budget in Euros 
* a support letter from the Home Institution, 
* a CV, including a list of academic publications if applicable. 
 
Further details of the application process can be found [here](https://www.cost.eu/uploads/2021/12/Grant-Awarding-userguide.pdf)!  
 
Applications must be eligible (see [Annotated Rules for COST Actions](https://www.cost.eu/uploads/2023/11/COST-094-21-Annotated-Rules-for-COST-Actions-Level-C-V1.4-Final-.pdf)) and in line with the Action research topics. For the 2024 round of applications, projects in line with Working Groups 2 (Species assignment) and 4 (Haematology) will be prioritised, but other STSM applications may be funded, depending on budget. All proposed activities must be concluded by 31st October 2024. The applications will be ranked by the Core Group based on: 

* feasibility of the approach proposed,
* benefit to the development of the COST Action 
 
The selection will follow the COST policies on inclusiveness (gender, age, geography). The final ranking will be approved by the Action Chair and Co-Chair. 

All researchers who applied to the call will be informed of the outcome of their application by 19th April. 
 
After completing the STSM, the recipient must submit a brief report outlining the results of their visit. The report must be submitted no later than 30 days following the end date of the STSM, or 15 days after the end of the Grant Period, whichever comes first. It is important to note that if the report is not submitted on time, the grant will be revoked. Once the report has  been  approved,  the  grant  payment  is  expected  to  be  processed  within  30  days. 
 
The selected researchers should wait for the official invitation from the Grant Holder before booking any travel arrangements. 

Download this announcement [here](assets/docs/WIMANET_STSMannouncement.pdf).
 
 
